---
layout: post
title: chruby - Minimal ruby version switching
date: 2013-06-16 9:00:00
layout: post
tags:
  - ruby
---

So, like many other compadres in the ruby world, I too have simplified my ruby version-switching, using the kick-ass [chruby](https://github.com/postmodern/chruby), written in less than 90 lines of code. I have been working on setting up a development environment for our interns here at [Acorns](http://acorns.com), and wished to avoid submitting them to the nonsense that is RVM (since bundler takes care of 'gemsets' in the first place). 

I've been using rbenv recently, with great results. However, I think that I like chruby even more, if only for its minimalism.

##Why would I use chruby?

* It's straight-up simple. 
* No gemsets
* No shims

1 caveat: chruby does not assist in installing new versions of ruby. You'll need a tool like ruby-install to help manage this. (Instructions included below)

##How do I get started?
* Install chruby with homebrew
`brew install chruby`
* Add the below line to your .bash_profile
`source /usr/local/share/chruby/chruby.sh`
* (Optionally) add the below line to your profile in order to automatically look for a .ruby-version file and auto-switch
`source /usr/local/share/chruby/auto.sh`
* Install ruby-install to help manage ruby installations.
`brew install https://raw.github.com/postmodern/ruby-install/master/homebrew/ruby-install.rb`
* Install the latest version of Ruby 1.9 (ruby-install will handle patch numbers for you)
`ruby-install ruby 1.9`
* Set a default ruby
`chruby ruby-1.9`

How basic is that? Keep in mind, you'll need to reinstall system wide gems like bundler to dive right into your projects.